#Continuing on Operator Overloading

Cascading assignment:

Order of evaluation **right-to-left**

```cpp
class A{
    public:
        const A& operator= (const A& a) {
            ...
        }
}

A obj1, obj2, obj3;
obj1 = obj2 = obj3;
//Order:
//obj2 = obj3
//obj1 = obj2
```
This type of cascading assignment is legal, because return type
of the function is `const &` and the function itself
is expecting a `const &` input.


```cpp
(obj1 = obj2) = obj3;
//Order of evaluation
//(obj1 = obj2)
//obj1 = obj3
```
This is **illegal**, `obj1` is `const` meaning that you cannot change or
alter it. Thus if you do assignment to it, it will be an error.

The reason why we put `const` on the overloaded `operator=` is because
we want to prevent this type of assignment. If we want to allow this,
simply remove the `const`.

>We are allowed to put `void` as the datatype, however
>if we do this, we make cascading assignment illegal. Thus changing the
>behaviour of the language.

Remember to do **self-assignment checking** on assignment operator overloads.
So that there is no computation time wasted.

####[] operator overloading
```cpp
class Haha {
    int a;
    int b;
    int operator[] (int w) const {
        if (w==0) return a;
        else return b;
    }
    int& operator[] (int w) {
        if (w==0) return a;
        else return b;
    }
};

int main() {
    Haha desmond;
    cout<<desmond[0];
    desmond[1] = 10;
    const Haha quanLong;
    cout<<quanLong[0];
}
```
This operator needs to be overloaded specifically as a **member function**. It cannot
be overloaded as a global function. This is because this operator **will** use the
object. 

In this overloaded operator we **must** put **two** overloaded operator[]:
- A `constant` member function that returns a value
- A member function that returns a `reference`

Reasoning:
This is because the first one will be used for a read only type operation.
While the second one will be used for write purposes. As in for the second one
 you will be modifying the data member values. Whereas for the first one, you
 wouldn't be modifying it.

However in the `int main()` code `desmond` examples will all use the
`return` by `int&`. Meanwhile the `quanLong` example will use the return
`int`. 

So the reason is that we need one that is a `non-const` member function that returns
a reference. And we also need one that is a `const` member function
that returns a value.

Therefore, the reason is that we need to support both `const` and `non-const` objects.

**Parameter** of the overloaded[] **must be `integer`** this is because we will
be providing an index number.

#### ++ operator overloading
We also have two overloaded ++ operators, this is because of
the ability of the operator to support post and pre increment.

```cpp
class Vector {
    public:
        ...
        Vector& operator++(); //Pre-increment
        Vector operator++(int); //Post-increment
    private:
        double x,y;
};
```

>```
>int a = 5;
>(++a) = 6;
>```
>This is completely legal, because we return a after the operation, allowing us to modify it.
>```
>(a++) = 7;
>```
>Is illegal because we return a value

Pre increment always returns a `reference` while post increment always
return a `value`. This is the standard of C++ itself.

Reason why the post-increment operator needs a "dummy" `int` is because
this is why C++ defines it.

Rule of thumb: See the left side of the operator, if it is an object of your
user defined datatype, you can define it as a member function. But if it isn't 
then you have to define it as a global function. 
