# Continuing with Namespaces

We can put a namespace in another namespace : this is called _nested_ namespace.

As in we can have a multitude of namespaces inside another namespace.

Global namespace: functions and variables defined globally belong in the global namespace. As in not wrapped inside a class or a file scope.

Explicit use of `using` declaration:

```c++
using std::vector
using std::cout
using std::endl
using std::find

//instead of using namespace std
```

So we tell C++ we only want to use these specific functions instead of all everything in namespace std.

The reason why we do this is :

- Readability
- Performance : helps C++ compiler, don't have to search through the whole namespace.

Also can use namespace per object/function:

```c++
std::vector<int> v;
std::vector<int>::iterator it;
```

Everytime you see `::` the left side of `::` is either a class or a namespace.

When you see `.` usually the left side is an object. Or it can also be a class if it is a `static` variable / member function.

# Inheritance

Class `Student` and `Teacher` has data members and member functions that are the same. Therefore, there are somethings that are the same. We can share these functions by simply copy and pasting the functions, however this is **error prone**. Therefore, we need: **Inheritance**

So how do we solve this `Student` and `Teacher` problem with inheritance?

We put the shared data members and functions in a separate class. This is the **base class**

Then the `Student` and `Teacher` inherits these functions from the base class. After that, we add on top the extra data members and member functions that are unique to these two classes respectively. These two classes are class **derived classes**.

Syntax for this inheriting action:

```c++
class Student : public UPerson {
    ...
}
```

So inheritance is basically a class grabbing the data members and functions from another class.

Note, the `constructor` and `destructor` of the base class is not inherited by the derived class.

You cannot do specific/selective inheritance. If you inherit you will have to inherit all the functions.

In C++ you can inherit from multiple classes. However, this feature is not available in all programing languages. This is called **multiple inheritance**.

Polymorphic Substitution Principle or Liskov Substitution Principle:

Example: If there is a function that accepts base class object, you can pass a base class type object and the derived class object to it.

Example of this:

```c++
UPerson up;
Student stu;

UPerson* upointer  = &up; //OK, normal usage
UPerson* upointer = $stu; //Also OK, because of Liskov

Student& hehe = up; //NOT OK

UPerson uobj = stu; //OK, because of Liskov, however this is a bit weird, because of slicing
```

Why is this true? Because the `Student` class is a derived class of the `UPerson` class.

Base class is the more general one. Derived class is more specific.

Class Hierarchy is basically many different levels of classes that are linked to each other in a certain way. (the hierarchy)

Direct and Indirect :

- Direct inheritance, `Student` inherits from `UPerson` is called direct inheritance.
- Indirect inheritance, `PG_Student` inherits from `Student` is called indirect inheritance as the `PG_Student` indirectly inherits from `UPerson`

## Initialization of Classes in an Inheritance Hierarchy

A child class or derived class needs to initialize all the data members that it inherited from its parent class or base class.

And, to initialize these data members, you should use the parent's class's constructor to initialize said data members. Do not initialize inherited data members in the derived class's constructor.

Example:

```c++
class A{
    private:
        int a;
    public:
        A(int x) {a = x;}
};

class B : public A{
    private:
        int b;
    public:
        B(int p, int q) : A(p) {
            //a = p;
            //:( Need to call constructor
            //So use member initialization list.
            b = q; //:)
        }
}
```

So, in conclusion: **NEVER** initialize base class data members in the body of the constructor of the derived class.

Slicing would cause a loss in the information stored in the derived class. And that information cannot be recovered anymore.

Example:

```c++
class A {
    int a;
    public:
        A(int x) {
            a = x;
        }
};

class B{
    int b;
    public:
        B(int x, int y) : A(x), b(y) {

        }
};

int main() {
    A objA(11);
    B objB(20,32);
    objA = objB;
}
```

When we do this, it works. However the result is that the value of variable `b` will get lost.

No slicing happens with pointers and references. Because there is no copying done. Slicing only occurs when copying happens.

Even if the member variables in the base class has the same name you can still inherit it in the derived class. In order to distinguish however, you will need to use the scope operator.

Note that in the case of same names, the functions that use these data members will refer to the ones that are closer the class. As in if there is a variable `x` in both base and derived class, and then the derived class has a function that uses that `x`. Then unless clearly specified, that function will access the derived class's `x`.

A member function in the derived class can be defined and that it has the same name as the function in the base class. And the new member function can have a different implementation. This is called function overriding.

In function overriding, the function signature is exactly the same. And function overriding only happens with inheritance.

To know which function's function is called, just check the type of the object. So anytime you call a function that has function overriding, the function that is called is always based on the type of the object that calls it.

## Inheritance Access Control

If a data member or function is private in the base class, then you have a derived class that inherits the base class, the derived class can't access the private base class stuff.

Solution to fixing this? Making the data members and public as protected. If something is protected, then it is visible to the class and its derived classes.

If it is private, it is only available to the class. Not its derived classes.

But these data shouldn't be public (principle of infomation hiding)

Private members cannot be accessed by derived classes. However if the base class has a friend function, and the friend function accesses the base class's private data members the derived class can use these friend functions.

However it is still more preferable to use private compared to public.

## Public, Protected, Private Inheritance

```c++
class A{
    public:
        int a;
    protected:
        int b;
    private:
        int c;
}

class B : public A{
    // Gets all from A
    // int a; public
    // int b; protected
    // int c; private
    public:
        void func () {
            a = 10;
            b = 20;
            c = 30;
        }
}

class C : protected A {
    // Gets all from A
    // int a; protected
    // int b; protected
    // int c; private
}

class D : private A {
    // Gets all from A
    // int a; private
    // int b; private
    // int c; private
    public:
        void func () {
            a = 10; // OK :)
            b = 20; // OK :)
            c = 30; // NOT OK :(
            //WILL NOT COMPILE
        }
}
```

Judge new access rights by which one is more restrictive (in public inheritance)

If you use data member from another class, then we have to follow the access rights of the original class. (in inheritance)
