# Continuing on Operator Overloading

Rules on Overloading Operators

- List of operators that can only be overloaded as member functions:

  - assignment operator =
  - subscript operator []
  - member access operator (arrow) ->
  - functional forms ()

- List of operators that can only be overloaded as non-member functions:

  - insertion operator >>
  - extraction operator <<

- List of operators that cannot be overloaded:

  - dot operator(.)
  - scope resolution operator(::)
  - sizeof
  - conditional operator ?:
  - access pointer .*

- Cannot create a new operator

- Cannot change the number of arguments that an operator takes
- Cannot change the precedence of an operator
- An overloaded operator cannot have default arguments

## Overloading ++

Q1 Overload as a member function:

```c++
Class A {
    A& operator++() {...};
};
```

Q2 Overload as a global function:

# Friend Functions or Classes

> Getter : inspector functions

> Setter: accessor functions

Example of the vector class, if the `operator<<` is defined as a member function, it will cause the output syntax to be as:

```c++
d << (cout << 'vector + vector: a + b = ") << endl;
```

However as can be seen, when using the `<<` operator the order is flipped. Usually we do `cout<<d` but here what is being used is `d<<cout`.

But this exists to show that we can overload `operator<<` as a member function. But the drawback to this is that the syntax would be flipped. Thus it would be better if we follow C++'s syntax and implement it as a global function.

Same case applies for the `operator>>` for `cin`.

```c++
class Vector {
    friend ostream& operator<<(ostream& os, const Vector& a);
    friend Vector operator+ (const Vector& a, const Vector& b);
public:
    Vector(double a = 0, double b = 0) : x(a), y(b) {}
private:
    double x,y;
}

ostream& operator<< (ostream& os, const Vector& a) {
    return ....
}
Vector operator+ (const Vector& a, const Vector& b) {
    return ....
}
```

This is in example of a friend function. The two overloaded operators are global functions however they are able to access the private data members of the class because they have been granted access to it through `friend`.

This is done so that we can still grant several global functions that we select access to the private data members. Without `friend`, the only solution would be to change the data members to public. Which would cause all the global functions to have access to all the data members. Which is bad.

You can also do this:

```c++
class A {
    friend ostream& operator<< (ostream& os, const A& a) {
        ....
    }
}
```

The `operator<<` here is still a global function not member function even though it is declared in the class.

The `friend` declaration can also be given to other classes. So that the other class can access the private members of the other class.

Properties of C++ friendship:

- Friendship is **granted** not taken: has to be defined during design, cannot add new without rewriting class definition
- Friendship is **not symmetric** : if A is B's friend, it doesn't necessarily mean that B is A's friend.
- Friendship is **not transitive** : if A is B's friend and B is C's friend, A is not necessarily mean A is C's friend.
- Friendship is **not inherited** : friends of a base class do not become friends of its derived classes automatically.

```
class Student : public UPerson {
    ...
}
```

What is `: public UPerson`?

It basically means that the current class is inheriting from the `UPerson class`. This is because the new class that we want create has all the base functions and data members of the UPerson class with more additions. Therefore so that we don't have to recreate these functions we can make it inherit from `UPerson` and get all the functions and data members.

# Static Data and Methods

```c++
class Student {
private:
    string name;
    vector<string> memory;
public:
    Student(string s) : name(s) {}
    void memorize (string txt) {memory.push_back(txt);}
    void do_exam();
}
```

`vector` is a dynamically sized array. As in this case, the size of the `memory` array, the size of memory depends on the size of the string passed into it.

So what is `static` itself?

If there is the `static` keyword on a data member, it means that this variable is not going to be in any object. Instead it is going to be in the class. But the initialization of the `static` data member must be initialized **out of the class**

```c++
class A {
    private:
        int a;
        double b;
    static char c;
};

char A ::c == 'A';
```

> No matter how many objects are created, there is only one copy of the static data member.

Static can also be given to user defined data types, not only primitive data types.

**Important Note**: If the user defined data type wasn't initialized, it **will not** appear. You still have to initialize it **out of the class** by calling a constructor.

```c++
class Mathematician {
    private:
        double PI;
};

int main() {
    Mathematician objs[100];
}
```

What happens here is that there will be a `PI` in every object. Which is a bad design!

You should do:

```c++
static const double PI;
const double Mathematician::PI = 3.14159;
```

Consider

```c++
class Haha {
    private:
        int a;
        double b;
        static char c;
};

char Haha::c = 'C';

int main() {
    Haha::c = 'A'; //:(
}
```

This is not allowed because `c` is a private member. Meaning that it can only be accessed by the member functions of the class `Haha`.

Reason why we would make a `static` variable `private` is to give it more protection. So that not any function can access said data member.

```c++
class Haha {
    ...
    public:
        char getSomething() {
            return c;
        }
};
...
int main() {
    char c = Haha::getSomething(); // :(
}
```

`getSomething()` is a member function **not** a static member function. Meaning that you can only use this function if you have **instantiated** an object

```c++
...
int main ( {
    Haha hoho;
    char ohoh = hoho.getSomething(); // :)
}
```

Static member functions:

```c++
class Haha {
    private:
        int a;
        double b;
        static char c;
    public:
        static char getSomething() {
            return c;
        }
};
char Haha::c = 'A';

int main() {
    char ohoh = Haha::getSomething(); //Can now be done
}
```

Because we declared `getSomething()` as a static member function.

Static member function is similar to a global function!

Data members:

- Non-static data members
- Static data members

Member functions:

- Non-static member functions
- Static member functions

What can they access?

Member functions:

- Non-static member functions:

  - non-static data members
  - non-static member functions
  - static data members
  - static member functions

- Static member functions:

  - static data members
  - static member functions

Why can non-static access static stuff? Because the static stuff is created earlier, as in when the program starts, anything static will be created and initialized even without creating any objects.

This reason also implies that static data members cannot access non-static data members and functions, because during the creation of the static stuff, we haven't created any non-static objects. Therefore it is impossible to access any non-static data members.

`const` should not be put on `static` member function definitions, as there is no data members that it could possibly accidentally alter. Therefore there is no need to put a `const`. (Note: it will be an error).
