#Continuing on Operator Overloading

Rule of thumb in deciding whether or not an operator
can be defined as a member function, if the LHS of the operation
is an object of the type, it means that it can be defined as a member
function.

Examples:
```cpp
a + b //Can define member function for this
a * b //Can define member function for this
//LHS are objects

2 + b //Cannot define, LHS is a constant
//What to do in this case?
//Global functions
```

Overloaded operator += 

```cpp
const Vector& Vector::operator+=(const Vector &b) {
...
}
```
Why return by const reference?

```cpp
(a+= c) = 3;
```
What happens here? Two steps:
- `a = a + c` when this is done it will return the object `a`
- `a = 3` the returned object from first operation is made to equal 3

Same as the above case, when you overload an operator += in an
object like that, you are supposed to return the `this` object

The reason why we return it by reference is because `this` is 
something that is already existing. We do not want to create a new 
object here.

The reason why we have const is because we want to avoid you 
assigning something to a. It weirds out the logic.

Ex:
`(a+=b)=c` is not allowed. This is because the return type of
the first `a+=b` is a const.

>If `const` is removed it is okay. You can choose either way.

You cannot define both:
- operator+(a,b) : non member function definition
- a.operator+(b) : member function definition

You can only choose one of the two or else c++ will be confused.

Why does operator+ and operator+= have different return types?

Because primitive types does that, and we have to implement the same thing.

`operator+` for scalar + vector is an error is because the LHS is a value.
Thus because the function itself is overloaded as a member function, you cannot
do this. A solution to allow this is that you make the overloaded `operator+` to be
a global function. Or a better solution is that leave it as a member function, but do `a+5`
instead of `5+a`.

Overloading operator= for memberwise assignment

`a = b = c = d = e` is impossible for the Vector case, because
its implementation return a const reference. Meaning that
it shouldn't be possible to do cascading assignment. Even though
in primitive data types it is **possible**.

>Reason why we put a const in any overloaded operator with the `=` sign is because
>we would like to prevent cascading assignment

Self assignment shouldn't be possible because:

`const Vector& Vector::operator=(const Vector& b)` 

Here if you do self assignment it means that the `b` object that you are passing
with a `const` cannot be changed. Here you are trying to change the `a` object which
is also the `b` object which means that this is not allowed here.

>Normally in a copy constructor, we will call an assignment operator function.


