# Continuing on Generic Programming

For templates, we cannot separate the declaration and definitions. **Both** have to be in the .h file.

## Operator Overloading

We can make an Add() function for the object, however it would cause the code to be unreadable e.g: `a.add(b.add(c.add(d)));`. This works but is very unreadable.

Therefore it is better to overload the + operator. Ex:

```c++
Vector operator+ (const Vector& a, const Vector& b) {
    return Vector(a.getx() + b.getx(), a.gety() + b.gety());
}
```

Also you can add:

- vector to vector
- scalar to vector
- vector to scalar

How is this possible? The vector+ can only support vector type objects if we pass it a single value it wouldn't know what to do?

Answer: Because we have a vector constructor, when we pass it a scalar only the constructor will create a temporary object and coerce the scalar to a vector. Thus allowing the operator+ to complete its operation.

> Note that the vector class constructor has default arguments to ensure all values are initialized

But we can disallow this by putting an `explicit` tag on the constructor. However this will result in the + operator only accepting vector and vector.

Almost all C++ operators can be overloaded, except:

- .
- ::
- ?:
- .*

> Note: you cannot **define** new operators, you can only redefine what C++ already has

Overloaded operators can be defined as:

- Global functions
- Member functions
- Both global and member functions

Sometimes we can only choose **one** of the two because of the nature of said operator.

Examples:

- Global : cout `<<` and cin `>>`
- Member : TBA
- Both : `*`,`+`, `-`, `/`

Why `<<` and `>>` have to be global?

Because:

```c++
class A { ... }

int main () {
    A obj;
    ...
    cout<<obj;
}

//What does C++ interpret cout<<obj as?
//1\. cout.operator<<(obj);
//2\. operator<<(cout,obj);
//Right answer : 2, 1 is wrong as cout is an ostream object
//and it won't ever know what the type of obj is.
```

In order to be able to support the output number 1, we would have to modify the ostream class. However this is not possible as we do not have access to the ostream class. Therefore we would only be able to define a **global** operator function for `<<` and `>>`

```c++
class A {...}

ostream& operator<<(ostream& os, const A& haha);
int main() {
    A obj1, obj2;
    cout<< obj1 << obj2 << endl;
}
```

We have to return by reference an ostream object because C++ will interpret `cout<<obj1<<obj2<<endl` as `operator<<(operator<<(cout,obj1), obj2)`

So because we eventually want to return a cout object, we will have to return a ostream.

And reason why we return by reference, is because we want to save memory.
