# Continuing on Polymorphism

Constructors are unique in C++. There is no dynamic binding when we call virtual functions in the constructor unless we explicitly specify the scope of the function.

So basically if there is a function call in the constructor, the one that is called is the one in that specific class.

## Abstract Base Class

```c++
class Car {
    public:
        double maxSpeed();
};
```

Suppose you are asked to implement the function above. How would it be implemented. An answer would be to `return` a value. However this is not applicable always. Because we do not know what is the type of the car.

So how do we solve this problem? Using a pure virtual function!

```c++
class Car {
    public:
        virtual double maxSpeed() = 0;
};

int main() {
    Car c; //:(
    Car* p; //:)
    Car& haha = ....; //Is okay, but you need to have a derived class implemented
}
```

> Note you must still put `virtual` in the beginning.

Important point, if you have a pure virtual function, the class itself automatically becomes an abstract base class (implicitly switched). This means that **no objects** of this type may be created. This is because some member functions are not implemented thus we cannot create the object.

> `=0` in the end of a function means that you don't want to complete the implementation of the function

```c++
class Car {
    public:
        virtual double maxSpeed() = 0;
};

class BMW: public Car {
    public:
        virtual double maxSpeed() { return 500;}
};

int main() {
    BMW bb;
    Car* p = &bb; //Okay
    Car& haha = bb;
    //This makes sense because we can assign a reference to a BMW
}
```

Object assignment is impossible with an abstract base class. This is because we can never create an object of the abstract base class type.

Constructor, destructor, operator functions cannot be pure virtual functions. But every other member functions can be pure virtual functions.

0 has two meanings, a numeric zero or address zero.

So an abstract base class is a class that has **one or more** pure virtual functions.

# Abstract Data Types

A data structure is something that helps store, organize, and manipulate in a way that they can be processed efficiently by computers.

An abstract data type is more like an implementation of the idea of a data structure.

In the linked list ADT, the reason why the Sll_node `struct` declaration is inside the linked list class is data encapsulation. So that no other class other than the linked list is able to use this datatype.

Usually when you define a data member you should make it as a private. However, for a node struct type, you can also define it as public. This is allowed due to performance issues, if it is made as public then it will have a better performance.

Private constructor is done to ensure that only that specific class is able to use that specific constructor.

Formal way to call a destructor in a linked list is to do a recursive call of the destructor (create a temp object in the destructor inside a local scope, so when you leave the scope it'll get destroyed and will cal the destructor again)
