#Continuing on Hashing

Hashing is simply a table/array to store items, but it is called a hash table
because we need to use a hash function to determine which location to put the data into

Hash function design:
h(k) = k mod m

The value of m should be a prime number. Such that data entries don't compete / hash to the
same location too often. 

Have to pick a prime number that is **not too close to a power of 2 number**.
Also need to think how many data that is going to be stored.

Important things to consider when deciding the value of m:
- Prime number
- Prime number shouldn't be too close to power of two
- How many data that is going to be stored to the table

Example: Hashing 2000 numbers, pick m = 701

(around 3 numbers hashed into the same slot)

The number 701 is a prime number, not close to power of 2, and the number
is not too small. So it is a good m value.

##Dealing with string keys: 

####Method 1
Add up the ASCII values of the characters in the string.

Is not a nice method because ASCII values add up to a large number.

It is nicer to just assign integer values to the alphabets. As in 1 to A and 26 to z, then simply add
up the values together.

Most hash functions assume that keys are **natural numbers**, so if the keys aren't natural
numbers, have to find a way to interpret them as **natural numbers**.

Problem with this problem, keys do not distribute well

####Method 2

Use the first 3 letters in the word.

h(key) = (key[0] + 27 * key[1] + 27^2*key[2]) mod m
 
where m is hash table size

It can have a reasonably equitable distribution if the first 3 characters are random.

However, letters in an English word are not random, making most of the table empty.

In example, if we use m = 10,007 then only at most 28% of the table can actually be hashed.

####Method 3

Use all the characters in the word.

Hash function involves all characters in the key and the hash values are expected
to distribute well.

##Collision Handling

####Separate Chaining
Keys having the same hash values are chained on separate linked lists. So the hash table is a table of
linked lists.

So basically ignore the collisions.

New node is always put before the head of the linked list. (insertion is done
on the head).

Problem with this is there can be one single long linked list in the table, and the others are short.
This implies that the hash function is bad.

So inserting a key to k:
- Compute h(k) this is the index of the item
- If T[index] is empty, then init to a linked list and store the value
- If T[index] is not empty, then insert before the head (beginning of the list)

To delete a key k:
- Compute h(k) to again find the index
- Search for the key k in that entry in the table
- Delete the item with key k if it is found

Constant time for separate chaining operations (Search, insertion and deletion)

Also means that if the hash function is nice, then there will be little to no
collisions of data in the hash table.

Disadvantage: slow, because of linked lists

Advantage: deleting is easy.

Separate chaining means keeping all the values by making a linked list (to solve collision)

####Open Adressing
Entry we want to use is occupied, then find another within the hash table (to solve collision)

Three common methods for resolving collisions in open adressing:
- Linear probing
- Quadratic probing
- Double hashing

Difference in method of finding another entry.

#####Linear Probing
If entry is occupied, keep moving downwards until we find an empty entry.

>Hash table, generally speaking, you don't remove data. If you remove value, you just put markers to show that
>this is gone already.

Total number of collisions in example in slides: 7

#####Quadratic probing

Use the same hash function as linear probing, but when collision is encountered, then you move downward
in a quadratic manner.

So:
- 1st collision move down 1 location
- 2nd collision move back to start, move down 4 location
- 3rd collision move back to start, move down 9 location
- 4th collision move back to start, move down 16 location

And so on, so basically other than the 1st collision just move down by n^2 but don't forget
to **go back to starting pos**.

Using the same example, the number of collisions is lower.

This is better than linear probing because in linear probing you only move down by one step. Meaning that everytime there is a collision
there is going to be a cluster of data that forms. Causing the data to bunch up somewhere causing a lot of collisions.

Quadratic probing is better because you jump further the more collisions you get.

Still has the competing for same location problem, also jump amount is also the same (1, 4, 9, 16, ...) (so can still collision)

#####Double Hashing
So for each collision and each value the jump value will be calculated with a hash
function again. Resulting in different jump values per jump steps.
Meaning that it is less likely for the collision to happen again.

So there will be 2 hash functions. 

Only have 2 collisions with same example in lecture notes.

>Using linear problem will result in the primary cluster problem. Which is you move down constantly till you
>find an empty cell but it is a huge cell.

Criteria for 2nd hash function:
- Second hash function should never give 0 value.
- For any key k, hash2(k) must be relatively prime to the table size m, a solution is to
make the m prime and then R be a prime number that is smaller than m.

>Relatively prime: the only common factor of the two numbers is 1

Deletion in Open Adressing:

Cannot be actually performed otherwise the probing sequence will be broken.
You do deleting by marking it with a symbol.

###Re-Hashing
Re-hashing is based on the percentage of usage in the hash table, if the percentage (alpha) is
too big, then we double the table size, and rehash all data items with a new hash
function.

This percentage is called load factor. 

>Load factor only affects Open Adressing, not important for Separate Chaining

Note: this operation is very expensive on the computer, but must be done when space is running low.

Reason why we double the size is because we don't want to do rehashing soon.
