# Continuing on Abstract Data Types

## Continue on Trees

Multiway tree is a tree with more than two children per node. (A way to call it).

If we have n nodes in the binary tree, how do we arrange the tree such that the maximum height is n.

Example: suppose we have 5 nodes, and then we want to ensure that the height of the tree is maximum.

To maximum height, one node per level so there are 5 levels.

However, this is not a good tree. (A good tree is a tree that is **balanced** in terms of the left subtree and the right subtree of the roots. The height of the two smaller subtrees should be balanced.)

So a good tree is essentialy a balanced tree, which is signified by the height of the two subtrees should be the same.

The reason why we need the tree to be balanced is so that during searching, the amount of time required to search through the tree is faster.

The tree example we have earlier is actually a linked lists. A linked list is an example of a bad tree because it is not balanced. Meaning that the search time is greater.

> Note: Linked list is a tree itself.

Question: How many possible combinations of tree that can be constructed with 3 nodes. Answer : 5 ways.

So binary trees, the best form of a binary tree is that the left and right subtree has roughly the same height.

### Inorder method:

The golden rule for traversing the node in an inordered way is LCR.

Start from root, go left, to next node, go left, repeat until `NULL`. If you reach `NULL`, then you pass the current node to the function. After doing current, go right, but right is `NULL`, so go back up one level. Repeat C on this level, check the R and repeat the LCR process.

So basically the order is do LCR repeatedly. As in finish the left part first, if the left is finished, do the current one, if the current one is finished, do the right then.

**NOTE: THE ABOVE METHOD IS TO TRAVERSE USING THE INORDER METHOD**

### The Preorder method: the rule is CLR.

So pass the current node first then left, and then go right after left is finished.

### The Postorder method: LRC.

So basically traverse left first, then traverse right, then do current as you go up on the levels.

However most of the above orders printout in a weird order.

### So the next method is Level Order, which checks every level's left and right.

> Review: Leaf nodes are the nodes that have no child!

One of the application of a binary tree is to use it to represent a mathematical expression. By using the non-leaf node as the operands and the leaf nodes as the mathematical values.

Best method to review the result of a mathematical operation like this as a computer is with the postorder traversal, because the postfix notation result can be solved by the use of a stack! (Just like in midterm).

> Note easiest to read for humans is the inorder traversal (resul called infix notation)

Names of results of transversal:

- Inorder: infix
- Preorder: prefix
- Postorder: postfix or **Reverse Polish notation (RPN)**

Most compilers will convert an infix notation to postfix, so that the computer can solve it easier with the stack.

For postfix, you put the operators in the end, this is done to specify that this operator is for the previous two operands!

Infix to postfix conversion, when you get an operand, you print out the operand. When you get an operator you put in the operator to the stack.

When there are brackets, if the close bracket is found, pop all items in stack till you get open bracket. When the expression also finished getting evaluated, also pop out everything in the stack.

Rule of thumb:

- Operand : print
- Operator : push
- Closing bracket: pop elements until open bracket.
- End: pop all remaining elements in stack

RPN expression evaluation: same as the one in midterm :)

- Scan the expression from left to right, find an operator
- When an operator is found, pop two operands previously and evaluate with the operator
- Push result back

### Binary Search Tree (BST)

Requirements:

- It has to be a tree
- In the tree, all the values on the left side of the tree, the values needs to be smaller than the current node, and all the values on the right side of the tree must be larger than the current node.

This is better than a standard binary tree because we try to organize the contents. Making it much easier to traverse through the tree.

Binary Search Tree is a subset of Binary Tree which is also a subset of trees.

A binary search tree may not be unique even if the data is the same, because the order of insertion of data may not be the same.
