#Continuing on Binary Search Trees

Finding minimum value in a BST: always go left until there is no more
left nodes, that last node is the minimum node

Finding maximum value in a BST: always go right until there are no more 
right nodes, that last node is the maximum node

> Min element is always the left-most node

> Max element is always the right-most node

To find median, do Inorder transversal, because then you will get a sorted
sequence of values, then if these values are stored in an array, to find the median
would be as simple as taking the middle value.

For insertion in a BST, simply traverse the list as you would during
a search. And then if the search is finished just create the element there. 

>Note if there is a duplicate element, do nothing.

Deletion:
- If the node that is going to be removed is a leaf, just remove it
- If the node that is going to be removed has one child, then ask the grandparent node to take care of the child
then delete the node.
- If the node has 2 children, there are two choices
    - Find the minimum value in the right sub tree
    - Find the maximum value in the left sub tree

After finding either maximum or minimum then you can replace the value that we want to delete with 
either the max or min value. (Delete the current one, replace with the min/max and then remove the min/max
value node from its original position).

Why do we need to find the minimum value in the right sub tree and why do we need to
find the maximum value in the left sub tree? Such that the property of a BST is managed. Because we want that node
that we want to remove to still be smaller than all the nodes under it, thus moving
the minimum would be to ensure that the node itself is always smaller than all under it.

Generally speaking, usually to do deletion just find the minimum value
in the right sub tree, then put it in the place of the node we want to delete.

#Hashing
Hash table is an array of some fixed size.

Key is a something that is needed to determine the location to be used (compute
the location of your data). A key should be unique.

Hash function is the formula to determine which location of the hash table
to use for certain data. 

Search, insertion, and deletion can be done efficiently in a hash table.

However these operations are not supported in a hash table:
- find_min and find_max
- Finding successor and predecessor
- Reporting data in a certain range
- Listing out the data in order.

Often not all the keys will be used, therefore creating a huge hash table based on the number
of all possible keys is unrealistic.

So hash function is a formula such that maybe more than one data can get back a same index value (meaning that
they are competing for the same slot).

Collision occurs means that two keys are hashed to the same location.

Solution to this:
- Design a good hash function that is:
    - Fast to compute
    - Minimizes the number of collisions
- Design a method to resolve the collisions when they occur

Hash function design that is most typical : **h(k) = k  mod m**

Example: 
h(k) = k mod 10

k = 1234

h(1234) = 4

This is a bad hash function, because the key itself is a 4 digit
number, but we only use the smallest number (least significant digit) to
compute the result of the hash function. Meaning that we waste a lot of information
that is provided by the key. If we continue using this function, there will
be a lot of collisions that can happen.

>First Rule: for choosing value of m, don't use powers of 10 or 2as a value for m, because we waste
>most information from the key.

>TLDR ver: m not power of 10 or 2

Pick an m value that is a **prime number**. Remember to consider how many elements do we want to put into the
hash table.



