# Continuing on Polymorphism

Dynamic binding using `virtual` keyword (virtual functions).

Static binding is also called early binding.

Dynamic binding is also called late binding.

Virtual function means that the member functions that are marked with the `virtual` keyword.

> If the member function in the base class is marked with a `virtual` then all the derived classes will also have that function as a `virtual` function even though there is no `virtual` keyword.

```c++
//A.h
class A {
    public:
        virtual void func();
};

//A.cpp
void A::func() { //no virtual here
    ...
}
```

Only need to put virtual once in the `.h` file. No need to put it twice. Note, must be done in `.h` cannot be done in `.cpp`.

RTTI : Run Time Type Information.

Can be used to determine the type of the object during runtime.

Usage:

```c++
#include<typeinfo>

int main() {
    UPerson* u = new Student;
    cout<<typeid(*u).name();
}
```

Output produced by `typeid().name()` has a 7 in front of it. The reason behind this is because this is the value that is shown by g++. And this 7 means that this is a user defined type. Other datatypes may have different numbers. Note this value may differ between platforms.

> - Returned type is implementation dependent
> - Different compilers may give different results

## Virtual functions

Function overriding : the function that overrides the base class's function must have the same function signature, but implementation can be different.

```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class A {
    public:
        void func() {cout<<"haha"<<endl;}
};

class B : public A {
    public:
        void func() {
             A::func();
             //Not func() this does recursion or infinite loop
        }
}

int main() {

}
```

Example above shows how to call the base class implementation of a function in the implementation of its derived class. This is done by using the namespace operator `::`.

Overriding is **not** possible if the method or member function is not `virtual`

Overriding is for specializing a behaviour, not changing the semantics. As in it should perform the same thing however the overridden function is more specific. Example a `print` function must do printing.

```c++
class MESSIAH {
public:
    int a, b;
    MESSIAH() : a(0), b(0) {}
    virtual void test() {
        cout << "Test!" << a << endl;
    }

    virtual ~MESSIAH() {
        cout << "HAHA" << endl;
    }
};

class CHUCHU : public MESSIAH {
public:
    int a ;
    CHUCHU() : a(17) {}
    void test() {
        MESSIAH::test();
        cout << "POATATA" << a << endl;
    }

     ~CHUCHU() {
        cout << "I AM THOMAS" << endl;
    }
};

int main() {
    CHUCHU *nyes = (CHUCHU *) new MESSIAH();
    nyes->CHUCHU::test();
    delete nyes;
    //Output:
    //......
    //HAHA
    //Messiah changed into chuchu, chuchu destructor is
    //Messiah destructor.
}
```
