# List from study guide:

## Chapter 15
- **Lincoln's Ten Percent Plan**: any former rebel state can form a Union Government when 10% of the voters in 1860 had sworn allegiance to the Constitution and the Union, and they've received a presidential pardon. Failed because politicians debating who had the authority to restore rebel states to the Union.
- **Wade-Davis Bill**: Required a *majority* of white male citizens to declare their allegiance to the Union before a Confederate (rebel) state could be readmitted. Never went to law, vetoed by Lincoln because too harsh.
- **Reconstruction Amendments**:
  - 13th: abolished slavery, freed the slaves and made them freedmen
  - 14th: addressed citizenship and civil rights protection, allowed anyone born in the US (except Indians) to be a US citizen and as such was subject to the civil rights protection. protection for the Black people from violence from white radicalists such as KKK.
  - 15th: Prohibits the federal and state governments from denying a right to vote on the basis of racism. Allowed the black people to vote.
- **Black Codes** : Restrictive laws being passed by new all-white southern legislatures, the intent was to insist that the free blacks still belonged to the whites. Varied from state to state. Southern whites used the black codes to restore slavery in new ways.
- **Military Reconstruction Act of 1867**: abolished all the government's established on the Confederate States in President Johnson's reconstruction policies. Instead, congress established military control over the south, splitting the ten states (except Tennessee) into 5 military districts, each commanded by a general who acted as a governor. Also it required the states to create a new constitution that guaranteed the right of African American males to vote.  
- **Tenure of Office Act** : president requires Senate permission to remove any federal official whose appointment was confirmed by the Senate. Mainly to prevent the firing of the Secretary of War Edwin Stanton.
- **Impeachment of Pres. Andrew Johnson**: Johnson fired Stanton even though it was not allowed by the Tenure of Office Act, violating the law and opening the door to his impeachment. It eventually failed, missing the last required vote to remove the president from his office, it was a political mistake as it caused public support to weaken. However this whole impeachment caused Johnson to agree to stop obstructing the Congressional Reconstruction to avoid being impeached.
- **Compromise of 1877**: Hayes's victory in the elections hinged on the defection of some Democrat states that the Republicans secretly made deals with. The deal was that if Hayes became president, he would pull the last federal troops from the South, causing the state Republican government to collapse. It's important because it ended the military reconstruction era.

## Chapter 16
- **Gilded Age** : The time period post Civil War when people who dominated social, economic, and political life amassed such a huge amount of wealth and flaunted it publicly. A lot of people became very rich in this time period. This period is highlighted by huge gaps between social classes. The upper class are filthy rich and are extremely hedonistic. Middle class were getting better living standards. The term gilded, as its actual meaning, means that there is only a thin layer of gold covering the top. In a similar manner, the Gilded Age had unparallelled prosperity, however, American's social stability collapsed.					    
- **Vertical and Horizontal integration**	: horizontal integration, a company buys out or forces out its most of its competitors. Vertical Integration is when a company owns all of the different businesses needed to produce and sell its product.
- **Andrew Carnegie**: Dominated the steel industry, upon the creation of Bessemer's process, he concentrated on steel because it was cheap to make, and demand was very high because of railroads. Achieved horizontal and vertical integrations and is one of the titans of industry of the age.
- **J.D. Rockefeller**: Established Standard Oil Company. Wanted to eliminate all competition so he can have monopoly over the oil industry. His company managed to achieve vertical integration and horizontal integration. Caused state to make owning stocks in competing businesses illegal, which Rockefeller then tried to get around with by making trusts, which virtually gave him monopoly over the American oil industry. He caused antitrust acts to form and when his Standard Oil Trust was dissolved he found another way to monopolize in the form of holding company, companies that existed merely for the fact of owning other companies.
- **Knights Of Labor**: A labor group of national standing that endorsed the reforms advanced by previous workingmen groups such as ensuring payment of wages, elimination of convict-labor competition, 8 hour work day, paper currency, etc. They condemned violence and preferred boycotts to strikes. Anyone who had worked can join, except lawyers, doctors, bankers, and those who sold liquor. Declined after Haymarket Riot which triggered public hostility to Knights of Labor and labor groups in general.
- **American Federation of Labor**: Craft unions who refused to organize with industrial unionism due to them being skilled workers who didn't want to associate with non-skilled workers. Thus 25 craft unions formed the AFL, which was structured as a federation of national unions where each was free to act on its own in dealing with business owners. Grew slow, but quickly overtook the Knights of Labor in size. AFL had its greatest success in organizing skilled workers.
- **Great Railroad Strike of 1877**: A large strike that started in Martinsburg, West Virginia, when companies announced a 10% wage cut following the 1873 financial panic, the workers went on a strike and started blocking tracks to shut down traffic. This quickly spread to hundreds of cities and towns, causing a large amount of violence and damaged property. The strike failed in the end, however it brought up the possibility of a civil war between labor and capital due to the levels of violence that happened.
- **Haymarket Riot**: Chicago workers went on strike in favour of 8 hour work day. This strike caused violent clashes, where police shots rang and two people died. This infuriated the leaders, who then demanded revenge. Then they did another strike in Haymarket Square, where when they were about to disperse, the police arrived and ordered them to disperse. Someone threw a bomb at the police, and the police fired back and chaos ensued. Which eventually led to one of the seven leaders to suicide, two with life imprisonments, and the rest hanged. This riot was the reason why the knights of labor went into decline, and eventually destruction.
- **Homestead Steel Strike**: The Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers had been in negotiations to renew the union contract with Carnegie's company. Carnegie eventually tried to force the workers to take a 10% wage cut and tried to disband the union. However, the union went on strike and thus, private detectives were hired to scare away the workers, however the workers fought back eventually ending in the detectives to surrender. However, even though the strike dragged on, the union had fallen, meaning that Carnegie had won. Thus, the workers were forced back to work and had to take a 10% wage cut, and only 1/5th of the workers were hired back, the rest were blacklisted.
- **Pullman Strike**: Wage cut due to great depression, but people living in company town did not get rent lowered or store discounts. People became desperate and joined the American Railway Union (ARU), who urged the workers to obey laws and avoid violence. Eventually the workers went on strike, workers stopped handling trains that contained Pullman railcars. Pullman failed to stop the strikers by himself, so he lobbied the state to send federal troops which eventually happened and thus this strike had ended. This is most notable due to the fact that it paralyzed the economy of the 27 western states, which was why the federal troops were sent.
- **Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890**: the practice of forming trusts created intense criticism, thus Congress declared the Sherman Antitrust Act which made attempts to monopolize industries and restrain competition illegal. However it was so vague that it was basically useless.

## Chapter 17
- **Custer's Last Stand / Battle of little big horn**: Custer led a detachment of men to Sioux encampment in order to attack the Indians. He walked straight into the deathtrap and was slaughtered by the Indians, all his men killed. This caused the federal government to send more troops. Thus, the Indians were forced back to the reservation and a lot of them died. The Indians kept on getting moved again and again even though they were promised that they won't be moved.
- **"Jim Crow" laws** : new regulations requiring racial segregation. The term Jim Crow itself became a satirical expression meaning negro. These regulations caused the reappearance of racist customs and segregation between whites and blacks everywhere and in all aspects of life in the South.
- **Disfranchisement / Mississippi Plan**: A plan that changed voting requirements that causes a large proportion of the blacks to be unable to vote. Was quickly adopted by the Southern states, eventually causing more segregation for the blacks.
  - *Voters need to have stayed 2 years in a state and a year in the voting district to be able to vote*. Blacks who are sharecroppers have to keep constantly on the move thus this eliminated their voting rights
  - *Voters were disqualified if convicted of certain crimes that disproportionately involved blacks*
  - *Taxes had to be paid before being able to vote*, again making it hard for black people who were poor
  - *Literacy test requirement*, voters have to be literate. However, the literacy is determined by white testers, who were biased and gave harder tests to blacks, and easier ones to whites.
- **Grandfather clause**: allowed illiterate whites to vote if their fathers or grandfathers were eligible to vote in January 1, 1867, when most blacks were unable to vote. Meaning that this was a way for whites to get around the Mississippi plan, but ensured that the blacks are still unable to vote.
- **Plessy v Ferguson**: Plessy was convicted of violating the law for refusing to leave a whites only railroad car, the Supreme Court ruled that states had a right to create laws segregating public places, which layed the foundation to the creation of the "separate but equal" facilities all over the South. Causing the blacks to become more segregated.
- **Booker T. Washington**: Founder of the Tuskegee Institute and the foremost African American orator and educator in the nation. Was very skilled in pleasing the whites. In a speech in Atlanta he told the blacks should keep their head down and not try and fight for their civil rights. This is because he knows that any effort of "agitation" to the whites would backfire in the whole black community. Thus the blacks should attempt to succeed economically while accepting the new Jim Crow laws.
- **W.E.B. Du Bois**: The leader of criticism to Booker T Washington for prioritizing vocational education over civil rights. Called Washington's Atlanta speech the Atlanta Compromise. He maintained the exact opposite of what Washington told the blacks, that they should combat the whites for their civil rights and right to vote as much as possible and that education should not only be vocational but it must create bold black leaders who would stand up against the segregation and discrimination. The dispute between Dubois and Washington would later define the basis of the 20th century civil rights movement. As Washington died and leadership of the blacks was passed to Dubois, this signalled the beginning of the civil rights century.
- **Crop-lien system**: A credit system used by sharecroppers and share tenants who pledged a portion of their future crop to local. A system that was corrupt and destructive as it forced farmers to only plant tobacco and cotton, destroying the fertility of the land. Pay was not always fair, landlords manage everything and the sharecroppers or tenant farmers can't do anything. Thus essentially, this system is a new form of economic slavery, especially due to the living conditions of the poor sharecroppers or tenant farmers.
- **Chinese Exclusion Act**: effectively banning further immigration from China. Is a big point in the relations between US and China.
- **Exodusters**: African American migrants who migrated to the west in order to escape the racism and segregation in the South. However, the lack of resources in the frontier and the large amount of Exodusters going to the west caused them to eventually migrate back to the cities. However, living in the frontier was still a much better situation than in the South.

## Chapter 18
- **Munn v. Illinois**: The railroads and warehouses challenging the Granger Laws, however the court ruled that states had the right to regulate property that operated in public interests like railroads and warehouses.
- **Wabash v. Illinois**: Threw away the previous Munn ruling, ruling that only Congress is allowed to regulate industries involved in interstate commerce.
- **Interstate Commerce Act**: was designed to regulate the monopolistic railroad industry, it required that railroads be reasonable and just, but did not specify any rates. This led to the creation of the ICC to ensure that the railroads were following the act. However, the ICC's power was weak and eventually they were ignored.
- **Granger laws**: state laws to regulate the prices charged to farmers by railroads and grain warehouses. Was supported by the Munn ruling, but then overthrown by the Wabash ruling 9 years later.
- **Farmers' Alliance**: divided at national level and organized social and recreational activities for farmers and their families, but also emphasized political action. They also sought to address the issues of small farming communities, the called for the creation of a Third Party to address the issues of the farmers. The Alliance movement had gotten strong support in the South. This movement actually sparked the creation of the third party (the populist party)
- **The People's Party (Populist's Party)**: was established in the Midwest, they wanted increased government intervention in the economy, as only Congress can expand the money supply, counterbalance Big businesses, and providing efficient national transportation networks for the agricultural economy. The People's Party managed to gain some control in a few state legislatures, and gained enough seats to disrupt the balance of power between the Republicans and Democrats. Even more in the South, they managed to force democrats to elect governors, congressmen, and senators that were under the influence of the Farmer's alliance.
- **"free silver"**: A movement that wants called for the unlimited coinage of silver, thus creating inflation and raising prices such that farmers would be able to pay their debts. Gained political strength but then failed during the panic of 1893. When the Sherman Silver Purchase Act was repealed, effectively removing silver from the equation. However in 1896, the Democrats established the unlimited coinage of silver. But by 1900, the Republicans won the next election and established gold as the single sole currency.
- **Election of 1896**: Candidates: democrat and populists had William Jennings Bryan, the republicans had McKinley. Bryan self promoted himself, giving speeches about him supporting the poor against the corporation. While McKinley made the republicans announce that they only supported gold coinage which got them huge investments from companies, so they can afford to send speakers to promote the republicans. This whole election hinged on the "money issue", the fight between gold and silver was the one that determined the results of this election. Bryan eventually lost to McKinley, however he began the Democrat's shift to a party of liberal reform. After McKinley became president, money came because of an influx of gold from South Africa. Thus he signed a bill that the US's money supply would only be based on gold, ending the free silver movement.
- **Social Darwinism**: An effort to apply the theory of evolution in human society. The idea is that if people, ideas, and nations competed with each other, society would generate the greatest perfection and the most complete happiness. "Survival of the fittest" being the theme and this suggested that government intervention was a bad thing because it interfered with progress. This attempt was denied by Darwin himself, but Spencer, the person who proposed this, got many support. This movement led to wave of officials believing that the government should do as little as possible.

## Chapter 19
- **de Lome Letter**: a letter that was stolen by a cuban spy. It stated that president McKinley was "weak and a bidder for the admiration of the crowd, would be politician who tries to leave a door open behind himself while trying to keep in good terms with the aggressive nationalists of his party". Basically de Lome was a Spanish ambassador to the US and he insulted the US president. Causing the public who had been sensationalized by the yellow journalism of Spain's atrocities in Cuba to hate the Spanish government even more. One of the factors that triggered the Spanish war.
- **USS Maine**: The second factor that triggered the Spanish war. The USS Maine was docked in Havana, the Cuban capital, supposedly on courtesy. The Maine exploded, and sank taking all 266 crew with her. This caused the Americans who were looking for a war to blame the Spanish for sinking the Maine, even though there wasn't any evidence (it was eventually ruled out to be a coal explosion accident that sank the Maine). Thus they were quick to blame Spain and this second incident was the one that pushed the start of the Spanish-American war.
- **Spanish American War**: was triggered by the de Lome Letter and sinking of USS Maine. The Americans had a lust for war and president McKinley reluctant as he was declared war on Spain by asking the Congress permission to use troops in Cuba and declared the independence of Cuba. The Teller Amendment showed that the US had no intention of annexing Cuba. The war was short, the US got a lopsided victory over Spain in the Philippines, forcing the surrender of the Spanish there. Meanwhile in Cuba, American forces led by Theodore Roosevelt managed to defeat the Spanish. The last of the Spanish ships tried to make a run for it, but again they were lopsidedly defeated by the modern American fleet. Prompting Spain to ask for peace, which was established with the Treaty of Paris, where Cuba became independent, US to annex Puerto Rico and occupy Manila. Thus, this war ended the Spanish empire. The Spanish war caused the start of the US Imperialism, and the first of US's imperial colonies created a host of long-lasting moral and practical problems.
- **Teller Amendment**: On the resolution of war with Spain, US will not annex Cuba. This ensured that Cuba will be independent, and defined the conditions that would dictate the withdrawal of US troops from Cuba.
- **Filipino Insurrection (1899 - 1902)**: The US wanted to colonize the Phillipines due to its location that is near China that would give US access to the markets of China. However, colonizing was against the founding principle of the US, and thus there were many anti-imperialists that tried to argue against US imperialism. The conflict in the Philippines started when US soldiers in fired on the insurrectos, the national forces, killing two of them, without investigating the reason behind the shooting, the US commander ordered the start of a full scale armed conflict with the Philippines and rejected all requests for truce with the Filipinos. It ended with the Filipinos surrendering. Numerous atrocities were brought up on both sides. This event is important because it had created an anti imperalism debate in the US, which was won by the Imperialists, signalling a shift in the US's political focus. The US had destroyed a revolutionary movement similar to what it was doing under the British. This was also the start of the shift of American Focus towards Asia.  
- **Panama Canal**: of strategic importance to the US as it would cut travel distance between SF and NYC by almost 8000 miles. Had many hurdles in the construction with different sides. US had grown tired of negotiating with Columbia, thus they helped Panama revolt against Columbia. Then they signed a deal with Panama that finally gave them the whole canal zone that they wanted such that they could build the Panama Canal which opened 2 weeks after the outbreak of WW1. However, the US's behaviour in trying to get the canal zone had created ill will among latin Americans, more so by the frequent intervetion of US and Europian countries with the excuse of debt collection, which later gave rise to the Roosevelt Corollary.
- **Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine**: In certain circumstances the US was justified to intervening in Latin American nations to prevent other nations from doing so. Chronic wrongdoing would justify the US's exercise of international police power in the region. This corollary was the basis of the US's repeated use of military forces to ensure that Latin American nations paid their debts to the US and European nations.

## Chapter 20
- **Coal Strike of 1902**: Miners demanded a 10% wage increase, reduction of work hours, and union recognition by the owners. The owners refused and shut down the mines and wasn't willing to budge. This caused coal prices to rise and winter was rapidly approaching when coal stocks were low. Thus, Roosevelt brought the leaders of the miners and the owners and tried to break up the issue. The owners remained headstrong and refused to even speak with the union leaders. Thus, Roosevelt threatened to take over the mines and use soldiers to operate the mines, which worked and got the strike to end, mines reopened, workers getting some of their demands and production to continue. This is important as Roosevelt had become the first president to use his authority to referee a dispute between management and labour.
- **Meat Inspection Act**: basically, the department of agriculture needs to inspect every red-meat animal whose carcass crossed state lines both before and after slaughter
- **Pure Drug and Food Act** : Required producers of food and medicine to host government inspectors. Both this and the meat inspection act both signify the US's interests in regulating unsanitary and dangerous practices involved in food and drug production.
- **"trustbursting"**: in a sense means government activities in trying to break up trusts and monopolies by industries, such as the one by Standard Oil.
- **Frederick W. Taylor**: Invented Taylorism, a system of detailed performance standards for each job classification, specifying how fast people doing each job should work and when they should rest. This system greatly increased productivity and is one of the most important contributions to capitalist economies in the 20th century. Was applied to politics to reorganize state and federal agencies to remove inefficiencies to further support the progressive movement.
- **Election of 1912**: 4 candidates: Woodrow Wilson Democrat, Taft Republican, Debs Socialist, Progressive Roosevelt. All the candidates shared the idea that there needs to be more government intervention. Wilson won by a landslide due to the division of Democrat votes between Roosevelt and Taft that was caused by these two fighting. Debs himself had managed to accomplish things but he was a minority in this election.
- **Underwood Simmons Tarriff**: Was established as Wilson's method of tackling the tariffs that supported monopoly and high prices in the US. This Tariff lowered the tariff from 40% to 25% for the first time since Civil War. Also, this created the first income tax that was ratified under the 16th amendment which subjected only the rich people. Since the threshold for the income tax was larger than the income of 99% Americans.
- **Federal Reserve Act**: Motivated by the fact that the US had no central bank managing the circulation of money. It created the Federal Reserve System across the nation with twelve regional district with its own Federal Reserve Bank. This was designed to provide for more effective control of the money supply and bank credit. They can control how much money is in circulation. The idea is for this to prevent the boom and bust economy cycle. This banking system is still used till today.
- **Clayton Antitrust Act**: Basically strengthened the Sherman Anti Trust Act by creating stronger definitions on what is monopolistic behaviour, prohibited directors from serving on boards of competing companies, and made labour unions not viewed as a monopoly.
- **Progressive Amendments**:
  - 16th Amendment: Authorization of income tax. Which had been on and off for a while, it finally got ratified by enough states to become law. Progressives believes this is important because they think it would help slow the concentration of wealth in the rich at the expense of the middle class.
  - 17th Amendment: Provided direct election of senators, was ratified by enough states to become a law. This is important because under the Constitution, state legislatures elected senators, thus allowing for a lot of corruption via vote buying and bribing.
  - 18th Amendment: Prohibition of alcoholic beverages in the US by declaring the production, transport, and sale of alcohol (though not the consumption or private possession) illegal
  - 19th Amendment: Women's suffrage, was the culmination of women's suffrage movement in the US.


## Not found in textbook
- **Williams v Mississippi**: A case that reviewed whether there was any discrimination in the Mississippi act. The court ruled that there were no discrimination as these requirements were applied to all voters, even though in practice more blacks were unable to vote because of this.
- **Pendleton Civil Service Act**: a law that stated that positions in the federal government should be based on merits instead of political affliation. The Pendleton Act is important because it stopped the appointment of people to governmental offices merely because of their political affiliation or their connection to the president. The Pendleton Act required qualified people to be elected to governmental offices based on the individual's merit.
