# Exam 2 Study Guide

## Chapter 21:

-   **Lusitania**: Germans declared a warzone around British Isles, all ships there will be sunk without warning. The Lusitania was sunk there by German U-boats. This triggered American outrage and them calling for a declaration of war. Wilson urged patience at this point. The Americans demanded that Germany stop sinking ships the moment they see them. Thus the Germans ordered the U-boat captains to stop sinking passenger ships.
-   **Arabic**: A British Liner that was sunk by German U-boats despite the previous standing order. This caused the Germans to make the Arabic Pledge where they assured that they won't sink liners if they don't try to escape or resist. This pledge enabled Wilson to claim victory over his neutrality policy.
-   **Zimmermann Telegram**: An intercepted telegram to the Mexican Government from the Germans, telling them to attack the United States, in exchange, Mexico would be given lost territory. This telegram broke to the public and caused outrage, intensifying calls for war against Germany. The sinking of several more US ships after that prompted the US's entry to the Great War.
-   **Espionage and Sedition Acts**: outlawing criticism of government leaders and war politics, and a promised fee to pay and prison time for people who aided the enemy, or had disobeyed orders or disloyalty in the armed services. All in the spirit of rooting out spies and conspirators. Caused arrests of people who aren't actually spies but were just critics. Sedition acts extended the penalty to people who did or said anything to obstruct government sales of war bonds or to advocate cutbacks in production, or anything disloyal.
-   **War Industries Board**: became the most important of all the federal mobilization agencies. Is part of the economic mobilization where the nation tries to shift to a wartime economy.
-   **Food Administration**: led by Herbert Hoover, the purpose was to increase agricultural production while reducing civilan food consumption to feed the war efforts. Resulted in days of the week where certain types of food such as wheat, meat and pork to not be eaten to reduce consumption.
-   **Spanish Flu Epidemic**: Appeared suddenly and killed millions worldwide. No disease in human history had killed as many people as the Spanish Flu had. This flu caused the transformation of modern medicine and altered the course of world history.
-   **Fourteen Points/Treaty of Versailles**: devised by Wilson to ensure that there will be no more world wars. The first five points related to open conduct of diplomacy and the rest is to deal with territorial claims. Became the basis of peace negotiations with Germany after the cease fire agreements. The last point was about the establishment of the league of nations, to which Wilson gave up many things to ensure that it happens. The treaty of Versailles is when the Germans signed the demands of the victorious powers. Thus agreeing on some of the fourteen points that were left and to pay for the war damages.
-   **League of Nations**: something that Wilson envisioned would prevent another war. By making a league of all the powerful nations, they can sanction anyone who would attempt any aggresive moves enabling them to prevent a war. Is eventually agreed on internationally but Wilson had to give up a lot of things and faced many criticism for this. When he tried to get the US to ratify it, it failed.
-   **Red Scare (1919 - 1921)**: Bombs and threats to US government officials caused Anti Communist hysteria all over the US. This caused many arrests and deportations with no reason and no hearing. This was the largest violations of civil liberties in the history of the US. Those liberties were being violated without abandon. The result was a strengthened crusade for 100 percent Americanism and new restrictions on immigration.

## Chapter 22

-   **Emergency Immigration Act of 1921**: Restricted the number of immigrants admitted from any country annually to 3% of the number of residents from that same country living in the United States as of the U.S. Census of 1910. This meant that people from northern European countries had a higher quota and were more likely to be admitted to the U.S. than people from eastern Europe, southern Europe, or other, non-European countries. Professionals were to be admitted without regard to their country of origin. The Act set no limits on immigration from Latin America. The act did not apply to countries with bilateral agreements with the US, or to Asian countries listed in the Immigration Act of 1917, known as the Asiatic Barred Zone Act.
-   **Immigration Act of 1924**: Further modified the 1921 act, reduced the number of immigration from each European country to 2% of the total number that nationality represented in the 1890 census. Also setting a permanent overall limitation on new arrivals per year. This is done to favour immigrants from northern and western Europe and reduce those from Southern and Eastern Europe. Left the gate open for people from the Western Hemisphere, the result is the increase of people from Latin American descent.
-   **Sacco and Vanzetti**: most celebrated criminal case of the 1920s. 2 Anarchists were arrested and charged with stealing and murder. The case occurred at the height of Italian immigration to the US and numerous terror attacks by anarchists. Sacco and Vanzetti were executed though they claimed innocence.
-   **Second KKK**: A revived KKK that was a nationwide organization devoted to 100 percent Americanism, where only white Protestants can become members. Prejudiced against any minority they can find, not just black people. Basically hated anything that wasn't white. The Klan fell when Stephenson was sentenced to life in prison and laws were passed that banned the Klan or wearing of masks. But the impulse underlying the Klan lived on.
-   **Teapot Dome Scandal**: Teapot Dome was an oil field that was government owned, access to which was given to oil tycoons who had bribed some officials. Said official is then convicted of conspiracy and bribery. Because of Harding's misbehaviour and his corrupt associates, his administration was seen to be one of the worst in history.
-   **Scopes Trial**: Scopes was arrested for using a textbook that taught Darwinian Evolution. His trial became a trial for the fight between science and fundamentalism. The trial only sharpened the national debate between fundamentalism and evolutionism.
-   **Harlem Renaissance**: The nation's first self-conscious black literary and artistic movement. Was motivated by African American's newfound freedom of speech and action in northern settings due to The Great Migration. During this period they created many great works of art, and they were championing the cause of racial integration for black people.
-   **Marcus Garvey**: the leading spokesman of black nationalism which promoted black separatism from mainstream American life. Urged black people to separate themselves from white people. And he tried to create an all-black empire in Africa, thus he tried to gather funds to send black people to Africa and kicking out members of the UNIA that married white people. His ideas appealed many African Americans living in the slums but appalled other. His movement failed when he was imprisoned and deported. But the memory of his movement was kept alive and continued on.
-   **Al Capone**: The most famous prohibition era gangster. During the Prohibition, organized crime flourished as it gained a new source of income. Capone's empire brought in loads of money. He was finally caught due to the charges of tax evasion.
-   **Charles Lindbergh**: The first person who made a solo trans-atlantic flight from New York to Paris. He was hailed as a hero for this feat, and this act gave the aviation industry a huge psychological boost. The celebration to this feat was even larger than the celebration for the end of the war.
-   **The "Lost Generation"**: those who had lost faith in the values and institutions of Western civilization and were frantically looking for new gods to worship. Notable people are Ernest Hemingway and Scott Fitzgerald.

## Chapter 23

-   **Causes of the great depression**:
    -   Margin loans: allowing investors to buy stocks at part of the value, where the stock itself is held as a collateral. If the stocks become profitable, it can be sold to pay off the margin and reinvest in new stocks. This was a problem because so many people were doing it and it kept driving stock prices up.
    -   Reckless Stock Speculation: due to the large amount of money in circulation many people just kept on buying stocks and investing in them.
    -   Slowing economy: production and construction were slowing down but stock prices kept rising. This is shown in the fact that more goods were being produced but it's not matched by the consumer's purchasing power (no significant wage increase).
-   **Black Tuesday**: The day of the stock market crash. Stock values tumbled and terrified investors tried to sell their stocks, causing stock values to freefall. Signalled the start of the worst depression in history. It didn't cause the great depression but only revealed that the prosperity of the 1920s were built on weak foundations.
-   **Reconstruction Finance Corporation**: was setup by Congress to make emergency loans to struggling banks, life-insurance companies, and railroads.
-   **Bonus Army**: made up of veterans of the AEF that fought Europe in the Great War, they pressed Congress to pay the cash bonus owed to nearly 4 million veterans. But when it was voted down by senate, most of them went home. In efforts to dispatch the remaining veterans, accidents happened and some veterans were killed. Afer that the secretary of war sent more soldiers to remove the bonus army. Something that horrified the Democratic governor of NY.
-   **Election of 1932**: candidates: Hoover and Franklin Delano Roosevelt(FDR). Won by FDR by a sweep. A major campaign point by FDR is a promise of a new deal for the American people, he recognized the need for new ideas and aggresive action to solve the depression.
-   **fireside chats**: Radio broadcasts by the president to soothe them and ensure that it was safer to keep money in a bank than under a mattress. Caused people to calm down and deposit their money in banks again when they reopened.
-   **First Hundred Days**: a period in which Congress approved fifteen major pieces of legislation proposed by the president, several of which comprised what came to be called the First New Deal. The strategy to revive economy was:
    -   Create short-term emergency relief for the jobless to solve the immediate money crisis
    -   Encourage agreements between management and unions.
    -   Attempt to raise depressed commodity prices by paying farmer subsidies to reduce supply so that prices would rise and increase farm income.
-   **Emergency Banking Relief Act**: declared a four-day bank holiday to allow the financial panic to subside. Causing all businesses to come to a complete halt. While the legislators worked on a bill to reestablish trust in the nation's banks
-   **Glass Steagall Act**: called for separation of commercial banking from investment banking in order to prevent conventional banks from investing savings of depositors in the risky stock market. Only banks that specialize in investment can invest in the stock market. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board was given more authority to intervene in future financial emergencies.
-   **Civilian Conservation Corps**: most successful New Deal program managed by the War Department. They provided housing, jobs and educations to people.
-   **Agricultural Adjustment Acts**: created the Agricultural Adjustment Administration, which sought to raise prices for crops and herds by paying farmers to cut back production. Efforts paid off, production of corn, cotton and wheat had declined and prices had risen.
-   **National Industrial Recovery Act**: centerpiece of the New Deal's efforts. One of its two major sections dealt with economic recovery by creating massive public works construction projects funded by the federal government. The second part created the NRA (National Recovery Administration) whose primary purpose was to promote economic growth by temporarily waiving the anti-trust laws and allowing large corporations to create detailed "codes of fair competition" among themselves. This act created landmark changes in working conditions and union rights, ending the downward spiral of wages and prices and starting the economic recovery. The NRA set new workplace standards, a minimum wage, and abolition of child labour.
-   **Tennessee Valley Authority**: a venture designed to bring electrical power, flood control efforts, and jobs to some regions. It provided 1.5 million farms with access to electricity and indoor plumbing for the first time.
-   **Works Progress Administration**: Government agency established under the 2nd new deal, was established to manage several federal job programs created under the New Deal, became the largest employer in the nation.
-   **Social Security Act**: the centerpiece was a self-financed federal retirement fund for people over sixty-five. Workers and employers contributed payroll taxes to establish the fund. These taxes were spent on pension payments to retirees, whatever was left over went into a trust fund for the future. The problem with this is that it takes a sizeable amount of money from circulation, worsening the cash supply. Also, it is conservative as the government didn't add any money in. Was a response to the Townsend plan.
-   **Huey Long**: The most potent threat to Roosevelt. He planned to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans and redistribute the money to the poor, giving a lot of benefits for them and enabling them to do a lot of stuff. Even though his plan was not viable (costed more than it would net him) he said to just believe it. He claimed to have enough support to unseat FDR.
-   **Francis Townsend**: proposed the Townsend plan where state government would give people who quit their jobs money that must be spent, in order to allow younger people to get jobs. This plan doesn't work as the numbers again don't add up but Francis didn't care. He gained support from the elderly, these people sent letters to the white house asking FDR to enact this  plan.
-   **Charles Coughlin**: assailed Roosevelt as "anti-God" and claimed that the New Deal was a communist conspiracy. Had claimed that Roosevelt was a tool of the Jews and claimed they should be exterminated.
-   **"Court-packing" plan**: FDR asked Congress to name up to 6 new Supreme Court justices to add to the current list of justices. Backfired as it created fears due to being too manipulative and far too political. Is the biggest political blunder of FDR's career and had caused the fracture of the Democratic Party and had undercut FDR's prestige.

## Chapter 24

-   **Nye Committee**: conducted a senate inquiry into the role of bankers and businesses in the American decision to enter WWI. Concluded that weapon makers and bankers had spurred US intervention in the European conflict in 1917 and were continuing to help frighten nations to military activity.
-   **Neutrality Act**: in response to the Nye Committee enquiries, the president signed  some laws to prevent the mistakes that led US to WWI. This act prohibited US from selling weapons or travelling on ships owned by nations at war. Expanded to nonmilitary American goods that must be purchased on a cash-and carry basis. Was eventually revised to allow Britain and France to send their own ships to bring back American military supplies.
-   **Munich Pact**: transferred Sudetenland to Germany. Germany wanted to annex Sudetenland, thus Britain and France who were afraid of another world war tried to appease Hitler by giving it to him. However, it didn't stop him, as Hitler had no intention to abide to the pact. He kept on taking over more territory after.
-   **Lend-Lease Act**: allowed the president to lend or lease military equipment to any country whose defense the President deemed vital to the defense of the US. Was Roosevelt's most empathic effort to move America from isolationism to interventionism
-   **Atlantic Charter**: after the destruction of the Nazi tyranny, the victors would promote certain common values: self-determination of all peoples, economic cooperation, freedom of the seas, and a new system of international security (UN). Within weeks, 11 anti-axis nations, including the Soviet Union had endorsed the principles of the charter. Soon after, german submarines had sunk US ships, making FDR to change up the Neutrality Act to shift more towards the less neutral stance.
-   **Pearl Harbour**: The japanese trying to end the US before they entered the war attacked Pearl Harbour, causing severe damages to US battleships and killing lots of servicemen. The attack missed some key points that would otherwise have completely crippled the US navy. Thus the attack only resulted in American anger and prompted the US to enter the second world war. Germany and Italy also declared war against the US with this.
-   **Battle of Midway**: The battle that ended with the first major defeat for the Japanese navy and is the turning point of the Pacific war. This victory bought time for the US to organize its industrial productivity for a wider war, Japanese hopes for a short decisive war was dashed.
-   **Executive Order 8802 & 9066**: Order 8802 was signed to prohibit racial discrimination in the national defense industry. Order 9066 initiated the removal of Japanese Americans, and placing them in war relocation camps. Effectively putting them in confinement for about 4 years.
-   **D-day**: Operation overlord, an assault on Hitler's Atlantic Wall in France. D-day was the day of the invasion which had succeeded due to the Germans being surprised by the invasion. The Normandy Landings had succeeded in landing troops and supplies on the beach. With the capture of the beach, Allied leaders knew victory was in their grasp. As this paved the way to the Liberation of Paris.
-   **Manhattan Project**: A project to develop an atomic bomb before Germany as they are worried that the weapon may be used against the US. Was a super top secret project that even the VP doesn't know anything about. Would finish and gave the US access to the atomic bomb which was used to end the war with Japan.
-   **Yalta Conference**: The Big Three allied leaders met to decide that Soviet would control eastern germany, and the americans and britain would control the industrial areas of the west, while the capital is shared (France would later be given a zone too). The whole point of this conference was to confer on plans for the postwar world. Also prompted the creation of the UN.
-   **Postdam Conference**: Allied leaders met in Potsdam to issue the Potsdam declaration that outlawed Nazism and demanded the Japanese to surrender or face "prompt and utter destruction". The Japanese didn't surrender, inciting the US to drop the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
-   **Hiroshima and Nagasaki, end of WWII**: The two atomic bombs dropped on hiroshima and nagasaki had completely destroyed both cities and creating huge death tolls. Prompting the Japanese to surrender and ending the second world war.

## Not Found in Book

-   **National War Labor Board**: an agency established to mediate labor disputes during both of the world wars.
-   **Committee on Public Information**: An independent agency of the US created to influence public opinion to support US participation in WWI. Used every medium available to create enthusiasm for the war effort.
-   **National Labor Relations Act**: guarantees basic rights of private sector employees to organize into unions, engage in collective bargaining for better terms and conditions at work, and take collective action including strike if necessary. The act also created the National Labor Relations Board, which conducts elections that can require employers to engage in collective bargaining with labor unions (also known as trade unions).
-   **Fair Labor Standards Act**: a US labor law that created the right to a minimum wage, overtime pay for work over 40 hours a week, and prohibited child labour.
-   **Kellogg-Briand Pact**: an international agreement to not use war to resolve disputes or conflicts of whatever nature or of whatever origin they may be, which may rise among them. Parties failing to abide is denied the benefits of the treaty. Was signed by Germany, France and the US. Did not live up to all its aims but had some success.
