# Final Exam Study Guide

## Chapter 25
- **The cold war**: its onset seemed inevitable, no real agreement on who started it. Capitalism vs Communism, too many differences.
- **The truman doctrine**: The US foreign policy for 40 years after 1945, to "support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures". Established due to fear of the growth of communism.
- **NATO**: Defensive political and military alliance formed in 1949 by the US, Canada, and ten Western European nations to deter Soviet expansion in Europe. Marked the high point of effort to contain the Soviets from expanding to Western Europe.
- **The marshall plan**: The plan to give financial and technical assistance to postwar Europe in order to reconstruct the European economy, neutralize communist insurgencies, and build up foreign markets for US. Drew European countries together but increased tensions with the Soviet Union.
- **Korean War**: Soviet backed North Korea vs US backed South Korea, where the US responded to NKs invasion of the South by waging a war that was approved by the UN. Managed to take back the South, but then they wanted to continue to liberating the North, which caused the Chinese to intervene. The war eventually ended with pre-war boundaries being restored. Was an inconclusive war with costs to both sides.
- **Fair Deal**: built open the new deal with national health insurance, repealing the Taft-Harley act, new civil rights legislation, and other initiatives. Was one of the main campaign points of Truman in the 1948 election. Most of the initiatives were then rejected by Congress.
- **Executive Order 9981**: Truman's executive order that ended racial segregation in the armed forces, which completely desegregated the military.
- **Taft Harley Act**: Curbed the power of unions by prohibiting "unfair labor practices" such as the "closed shop" (nonunion workers couldn't be hired by unionized companies). Required union leaders to take loyalty oaths declaring they weren't members of a Communist party. The act was vetoed by Truman which won him the support of the unionists again, but was later overturned, causing it to still become law.
- **Second Red Scare**: people grew fearful that communists were infiltrating America. Caused the Loyalty Order to be signed by the president to create background checks in case of the presence of Soviets in the US. Also caused the rise of anti-communist hysteria in places like Hollywood, against Alger Hiss, etc. Violated civil liberties and overstretched foreign policy.
- **Julius and Ethel Rosenberg**: a New York couple who were part of a Soviet spy ring, they were convicted. Their convictions fueled Republican charges that Truman's administration wasn't doing enough to hunt down Communist agents that were stealing American secrets.
- **Joseph McCarthy**: charged that the State Department was infested with communists, causing McCarthyism which is basically a witch hunt to go out of control. His focus is creating a reign of terror by groundless accusations. Though his witch hint never uncovered a single Communist agent, but his smear campaign was succesful.
## Chapter 26
- **The Baby Boom**: a disproportionately large group that would shape the nation's social and cultural life throughout the second half of the twentieth century and after. A record number of births occured, large families were typical. Caused a surge in demand for baby supplies, education, and so on. The demands of the baby boom had created a huge market as that generation grew older.
- **Sputnik**: the Soviets first communications satellite. Causing the US to panic which led to an increase in defense spending and establish a crash program to enhance science education.
- **NASA**: the Sputnik mania led to the creation of NASA to coordinate outer space related R&D.
- **U2 Incident**: a U2 spy plane was shot down by a soviet rocket and its pilot captured. The US tried to cover up the incident initially but failed as the Soviets managed to prove the existence of the pilot. This incident set back efforts to reduce cold war tensions in Berlin and worldwide.
- **Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, KS**: Challenges to state laws mandating racial segregation in public schools were rising through the court system. This reached the supreme court, and Eisenhower tried to get Warren (chief justice) to side with the segregationists, which Warren didn't do. It was eventually passed that segregation had no place and promoted racial integration.
- **Montgomery Bus Boycott**: Rosa Park was arrested due to not agreeing to move to the back of the bus, as was social norm for black people at the time. This arrest caused people to boycott the bus system, denouncing the arrest. This also brought around Martin Luther King Jr. as a leader of the boycott movement. This boycott was a success and showed that well-coordinated, nonviolent black activism could trigger major changes in public policy.
- **Integration of Central High School, Little Rock, AR**: Black students were being forbidden to enter the school, thus the president sent paratroopers to allow the students to go to school, the soldiers stayed for the rest of the school year. This may be looked back as a turning point of race relations in the nation. The president was met with massive resistance from white segregationists. MLK backed the president. In the end the school was closed down under state legislature. It is eventually reopened a year later.
- **Ho Chi Minh and the Viet Minh**: ho chi minh is a seasoned revolutionary and passionate nationalist, who led the Viet Minh (the league for the independence of Vietnam).
- **Ngo Dinh Diem**: a new premier in South Vietnam who was chosen by the French. Eisenhower provided aid to Diem so that he can gain power. However his efforts led to the creation of the Viet Congs who were sympathetic to communism.
- **Viet Cong**: Communist guerrillas in South Vietnam who launched attacks on the Diem government.

## Chapter 27
- **Election of 1960**: Nixon vs JFK. Kennedy wins by a very slight margin, and this victory was achieved due to Kennedy having a much better image than Nixon at the time.
- **The New Frontier**: The domestic programs that Kennedy launched in his presidency. the conservative democrats and republicans again attempted to block his efforts on most of the things.
- **Bay of Pigs invasion**: A botched invasion meant to inspire anti-castro Cubans to rebel against their dictator. Humiliated JFK and made America look like fools.
- **Peace Corps**: created in 1961 to recruit idealistic young volunteers who would provide educational and technical service abroad.
- **Berlin wall**: erected by the Soviets to stop all traffic between East and West Berlin. Demonstrated Soviet willingness to challenge American resolve in Europe.
- **Cuban missile crisis**: Missiles were put in place in Cuba by Soviets, and the US was scrambling a response to this. In the end the Soviets agreed to remove the missiles if the US agreed to not invade Cuba and remove their missiles from Turkey. This incident caused tensions between US and Soviet to subside.
- **Assassination of Pres.Kennedy**: Kennedy was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald, creating an image of a martyred leader that fell to communism.
- **Sit-ins, SNCC**: Four black students were refused service unless they took the food outside or they eat standing. These 4 returned with more students every day for a week. The movement spread quickly as the civil rights movement found an effective new tactic that resulted in the whites-only policy was eventually lifted. SNCC was an organization that tried to dismantle segregation. SNCC broadened sit-ins from restaurants to other places like churches, swimming pools, etc.
- **Freedom Rides**: A group of 18 people who rode the bus through the South to test a federal court order that banned racial segregation on buses and trains and terminals. These people were attacked. Their efforts eventually led the ICC to order that all interstate transportation facilities be integrated. Showing that nonviolent protesters were prepared to die for their rights.
- **James Meredith/integration of Ole Miss (U. of MS)**: James was not allowed to register for classes at Ole Miss by the governor of MS. Thus Kennedy sent federal troops to ensure that James can enroll.
- **March on Washington**: the largest political demonstration in American history. This was where MLK gave his famous I have a dream speech. This is another instance of nonviolent civil disobedience. However, no major changes followed this.
- **Civil Rights Act of 1964**: legislation that outlawed discrimination in public accommodations and employment, passed at the urging of president Johnson. The act dealt a major blow to the deeply entrenched system of racial segregation by banning it in public places.
- **Mississippi Freedom Summer**: An army of volunteers recruited for teaching black people in freedom schools and how to register to vote. In response to this, white racists harassed, arrested, and assaulted many of the volunteers. The end of this was when 3 civil rights workers were murdered by the KKK, which signalled the end of innocence.
- **The election of 1964**: Johnson v. Goldwater. Johnson won the presidency by a landslide. However, Goldwater's efforts managed to shift the South to the republican party, and his candidacy proved to be a turning point in the development of the national conservative movement, inspiring a generation of young activists and the formation of conservative organizations.
- **Voting Rights Act of 1965**: ensured all citizens the right to vote, and allowed the registration of voters in areas that had long experienced racial discrimination. Banned things like the literacy tests that are used to prevent minorities from voting. The act is important as it empowered black voters in the South, enabling the election of black public officials.
- **Watts Riot**: Watts is the largest black ghetto in LA that exploded with riots, which continued to result in more race riots from 1965 to 1968. This showed the fragmentation of the civil rights movement where many blacks were losing faith in the strategy of nonviolence.
- **The Great Society**: Johnson's programs intended to create a society that would end poverty and racial injustice and provide an abundance and liberty for all. Johnson tried to push many programs to enhance the quality of life of Americans and claimed that the country was rich enough to do this. Vietnam war took funding away from these programs.
- **Medical Care Act of 1965**: created the Medicare, the health insurance program for the elderly and Medicaid program of federal grants to states to help cover medical expenses for the poor. Both programs are still around today.
- **Tonkin Gulf Resolution**: North Vietnamese torpedo boats attacked 2 destroyers. The resolution allowed the president to take all necessary measures to repel attacks against the forces of the US. Became seen as an equivalent to a congressional declaration of war.
- **Tet Offensive**: Viet Congs defied a holiday truce and attacked American and South Vietnamese forces throughout South Vietnam. Within a few days, America turned the tables and this was seen as a major defeat for the Viet Congs. This attack however turned most public opinion to be against the Vietnam war.

## Chapter 28
- **Betty Friedan**: leader of the women's movement, a wave of activism arguing for equal rights for women and fought against the cult of domesticity that limited women's roles to the home. Founded the National Organization for Women (NOW)
- **“Vietnamization”/end of the Vietnam War**: Vietnamization is the equipping and training of South Vietnamese soldiers to bear the burden of combat instead of using US troops. Done to reduce the number of US troops in Vietnam in an attempt to end the war. Part of the 3 fronts done to end the war.The war is finally ended with the Paris Peace Accords, but it was actually a surrender from the US.
- **War Powers Act of 1973**: requires the president to inform Congress with 48 hours if US troops are deployed in combat abroad and to withdraw troops after 60 days unless Congress approves. Done in order to prevent further American military assistance to Vietnam.
- **Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT)**: Limited the number of nuclear warheads and prohibited construction of missile defense systems.
- **Title IX of the Educational Amendments Act**: barred discrimination on the basis of sex in any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. Allowed for female participation in sports to increase.
- **Equal Rights Amendment**: required equal treatment for women throughout society and politics, overwhelmingly approved by congress but needed more states to ratify it.
- **Roe v. Wade**: Court decision struck down state laws forbidding abortions during the first 3 months of pregnancy. Court ruled that women have a fundamental right to choose to bear a child. Generated powerful conservative backlash on the "right-to-life"
- **Stagflation**: the situation of stalled economic growth, rising inflation, and high unemployment at the same time, occurred during the Nixon administration. The president failed to respond to the problem.
- **Watergate**: An attempted break-in to the Watergate apartment, Nixon denied any involvement, but provided hush money and tried to cover up the incident. Was merely a part of a larger pattern of corruption and criminality sanctioned by Nixon. Triggered the investigations to Nixon that caused him to become preoccupied with self-defense. Caused Nixon to eventually resign.

## Chapter 29
- **Camp David Accords**: Was the first agreement where an Arab nation officialy recognized the existence of Israel. Carter's diplomacy resulted in this accord which led to an all out war between Israel and the Arab world less likely.
- **Iranian hostage crisis**: a decision from the united states caused people to attack a US embassy and took 66 people as hostages, who would be released if a deposed shah is returned to Iran from the US. This crisis paralyzed Carter's ability to lead the nation.
- **Reaganomics**: argued that stagflation was caused by excessive taxes, thus Reagan's solution was to slash tax rates on companies and individuals. Shown in the signing of the Economic Recovery Tax Act (ERTA) which did not work in the short term. Eventually worked but created growing budget deficits.
- **Iran-Contra affair**: started due to the reveal of the US secretly selling weapons to Iran which contradicted Reagan's policy. Resulted in a Watergate like reveal that showed the complicated series of covert activites carried out by administration officials.
- **End of the cold war**: Reagan's efforts in bankrupting the Soviet succeeded, causing them to eventually sign the INF treaty, forcing both sides to reduce the number of nuclear weapons. These efforts resulted in the Soviets suddenly beginning to stress cooperation with the West. Eventually led to a coup which effectively ended the cold war.
- **Persian Gulf War of 1991**: Kuwait offended Iraq by reducing global oil prices, the US sent troops to protect Saudi Arabia, which then evolved to the war that ended with the surrender of Iraqi soldiers. This lopsided victory caused arabs to begin plotting revenge that would spiral into a new war of terrorism.
- Election of 1992: Clinton vs Bush. Clinton won due to his personality and the issues with the Bush administration.

## Chapter 30
- **Newt Gingrich’s “Contract with America” and the “Republican Revolution” of 1994**: Contract with America is the rallying promise for Republican voters, a list of conservative promises in response to the supposed liberalism of the Clinton administration. This fizzled due to conservatives pushing their agenda too hard causing the planned Republican Revolution to fail since even with control of Congress, most of the contract couldn't pass.
- **Impeachment of Pres. Clinton**: due to the Monica Lewinsky scandal, caused him to be impeached and acquitted.
- **Election of 2000**: Bush vs. Gore. The election created high drama, where Bush eventually won. However, there was a court case which led to a political drama where the Supreme court eventually ruled that Bush won the election and became president.
- **9/11**: Hijacked planes crashed to WTC, and the Pentagon. Another plane missed its target and crashed to the ground. Caused the start of US wars with Afghanistan, in attempts to demand the Al Qaeda who had orchestrated the attack. The wars eventually transitioned to manhunts for Osama Bin Laden. Also the war in Iraq which is part of Bush's new policy of preemptive military action.
- **The Great Recession**: Sudden contraction of corporate spending and consumer purchases pushed the economy into a deepening recession. Despite attempts to restore confidence, stock markets crashed and forced almost 9 million people out of work. This event signalled the end of the age of prosperity of the US.
- **Election of 2008**: Obama vs Bush. Where Obama won due to his personality and innovative campaign. He made history by becoming the first person of color to be elected president. He then adopted a bipartisan approach for his cabinet members.
