# Week 2

Simple attack scheme: if user id and password is leaked out, attacker can use the credentials to login to a machine through remote access. Firewall will not block this kind of access, then attacker can install attack software to that PC. If that compromised machine doesn't have blocking/isolation, attackers can do a lateral movement attack to take over more machines.

Routers can become a man in the middle attack, a hacker can hijack the network and takeover all the traffic that goes through the router.

MAC Address is at layer 2 of the OSI model, as such switches communicates in layer 2 as well. But it will still have to go through the ARP protocol to resolve IP addresses to MAC addresses. Switches will mark all the MAC addresses in an ARPA, which they will then store so they can find out who actually has the MAC address from an IP.

If SSID is hidden, it will not be visible in the beacon frame. You can get SSID from the client. Listen to the Probe Request from a device that has connected to a hidden network before. You will be able to intercept and find out the SSID from here.

WEP IV is short, if it is monitored for a long enough time, it is possible to find the same key being used twice, which can result in the key being cracked.


## Lab

**Question 1**:

Difference between `whoami` and `id`: `whoami` only prints information for the CURRENT user, and it only prints the username associated to the userid. `id` prints the user and group information for a SPECIFIED user. If no user is specified, it prints out the information for the current user.

**Question 2**:
Directory where `ls-al` is being typed is: /root
Directory that `ls-al` is listing: /root/Desktop/

**Question 3**:
10 lines

**Question 4**:
IP address: 192.168.111.130
MAC address: 00:0c:29:ac:20:83

**Question 5**:
TCP guarantees correctness, that is the packets will arrive in the correct order. While UDP doesn't guarantee any ordering of received packets.

**Question 6**:
www.google.fr

**Question 7**:
-v or -vv or -vvv

**Question 8**:
TCP Three Way Handshaking is the method used by TCP to set up a TCP/IP connection over an Internet Protocol based network. It consists of SYN, SYN-ACK, and ACK.

The TCP flags right after the HTTP GET request are: ACK

**Question 9**:
Hub is at OSI layer 1 or the physical layer. A switch is at OSI layer 2 or the data link layer. A router is at OSI layer 3 or the network layer.

**Question 10**:
To capture only HTTP content, you can apply a capture filter for the selected interface. The difference against filtering HTTP content is that this method will result in a tcpdump that is not as verbose (has less information, it only contains information that passes through the filter).

**Question 11**:
On a Windows computer:
1. Open Network Settings.
2. Find the list of wi-fi networks, the network with hidden SSID will be shown as 'Hidden Network'.
3. Click on the network and then click on the 'Connect' button.
4. Enter the name SSID and security passphrase when prompted.
5. Wait for the network to be connected.
6. Network is now connected.

**Question 12**:
1F:1F:1F:1F:1F

**Question 13**
12345678

**Question 14**
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Landshark

## Bonus

**Question 1**:
BSSID: 5C:63:BF:71:66:9C, ESSID: bonusquestion. This is a hidden SSID as if we look at the beacon frame, the SSID is shown as blank.

**Question 2**:
Encryption Method: WEP. Password: SoYouCanSeeMe

**Question 3**:
Protocol: ARP. IV: 0x005a24.

**Question 4**:
