# Week 3

RC4 is symmetric key encryption. Used for data encryption due to the fast speed of the encryption. Example: for SSL/TLS, HTTPS, VPN they all use symmetric key encryption due to the speed (only for the data).

Pretend to be broadcast, can then rebroadcast a message to the real broadcast address. Can explode the amount of packets sent really quickly.

Active attacks, as long as there are detection tools, they are easy to find out.

MITM attack: pretend to be a middleman server to steal encrypted content. Such that they are able to gain access to encrypting that content by forwarding it to the official target.

## WEP Attack and Password Attack
WPA and WPA2 attack: brute force attack, throw in a dictionary to test out whether any can penetrate the password.

WPA2 Key Reinstallation Attacks (KRACKS):
- Protocol level attack
- The encryption still has a key. The only weakness is in the implementation of the scheme. That is a client can enforce the use of a particular encryption key style. Originally it should be discussed by the participating members (notion is that if you get disconnected, you would be able to reuse your old key to connect back).

## Data Security
PII: Personally Identifiable Information. From the definition from PCPD, there is no actual definition of what is PII. Only stated in vague terms.
- Weak PII: By itself, cannot be used to identify a particular person. But with multiple information, it can be used to identify a person.
- Strong PII: by itself, it can identify a particular person.

DMZ: a zone in the network where we think that a lot of attacks from hackers will happen.

# Lab Session
Question 1: To disable directory browsing.

Question 2: PHP Version 5.16

Question 3: In passive mode, the client initializes the data connection, while in active the server initializes the data connection.

Question 4: 13 DNS root servers

Question 5: 'mysql_secure_installation' allows setting a password for root accounts, removing root accounts that are accessible from outside the local host, removing anonymous user accounts, removing the 'test' database, and disabling privileges that allow people to access databases that start with "_test".

Bonus Question:

Question 1: The two network interfaces belong to different subnets that are not connected. As there is no connection, there is no way for devices in one subnet to know about the devices in the other subnet. Since the Kali Linux is in the subnet of 192.168, it doesn't know anything about the one in the 10.10 subnet.

Question 2: Web server's eth1 is now linked to eth0's subnet. Hence it is now known. The database server's eth0 however is unknown. As even though they are part of the same subnet, that device is in the other subnet. Devices in the webserver's subnet has no idea how to reach devices in the dbserver's subnet. Thus the router in the middle (the webserver) needs to forward the requests from one subnet to the other.

Question 3: Since there are no mappings between IP addresses and hostnames, the router can't figure out what does the hostname mean. Routers understand IP addresses, but for them to know the host-IP mapping it needs to be specified first.
