# Week 6

# Lab Section
Question 1: Why are those requests loaded in such order? Why some of the requests
are in different colors?

Because of the order that the website assets are loaded. First it loads the base HTML of the website. This HTML then makes requests for assets like the js scripts and the icon file as it requires them. Some requests are in different colors because they had an error while retrieving the asset. (There is a 403 error on the image, indicating an error in accessing that asset, this causes it to fail and be colored red).


Question 2: What is the server type used by the server hosted the course web site?

Apache server

Question 3: What type of element is it? What attribute(s) does it have?

div element. Attributes: id (value = "nav")

Question 4: The requests are usually the same but responses are sometimes different.
How could this happen?

Because of an internal setting that tells lessonplan which page are you on right now. The response depends on which page you asked for. That is how even when the request is same, the response can be different.

Question 5: How is the solution different from the one in previous task? Why is there
such a difference?

In the numeric injection task, we can bypass the sql by simply adding "OR 1=1" which directly evaluates to true. While in the String injection task, we can bypass the authentication by adding "'OR '1'='1" which will also evaluate to true. They are different because of the way SQL handles numeric and string inputs. For numeric inputs, we can just drop the values in directly, hence the lack of quotation marks. But for string inputs, we need the quotation marks. Hence the attack must be formatted to close the previous quotation mark and inject in OR and close off by opening a new quotation mark to keep the statement running properly.

Question 6: Suggest any protection you could apply to avoid the cookie being accessed
by the client side JavaScript.

Using HttpOnly cookies.

Question 7: Write down the payload you used to produce the message: “Output: I Love
UST”.

?c=O:4:"Demo":1:{s:3:"tmp";s:10:"I Love UST";}

Question 8: What other potential issue you have observed? Explain with your
payload(s).

The object A can also be targeted by a deserialization attack. Using the following payload: ?c=O:1:"A":1:{s:6:"sample";s:10:"I Love UST";}, the value this->sample inside of the A object can be set to whatever the user gives. This will then be outputted into the page.

Question 9: What is/are the difference(s) between Missing Function Level Access
Control and Insecure Direct Object Reference?

Missing function level access allows unprivileged users to access admin functions that are supposed to be privileged. For example here, an employee can use the DeleteProfile function that is supposed to only be available for HR members. Thus allowing unprivileged users to do actions that they are not supposed to be able to do. Insecure direct object reference allows users to access information that is not supposed to be available to them using functions that are legal to them. Because the user can predict the values used they can access other people's information using functions that they are allowed to use.

# Bonus
Question 1: How to enumerate the database version?

Question 2: How to enumerate hidden rows and columns?

Question 3: Prepared statement only applicable to SQL database but not NoSQL (like MongoDB). So how to avoid such vulnerability at PHP in general?

Question 4: How to bypass the filter using HTML DOM events?

Question 5: How to bypass the filter using only <script> elements?
