# Week 8

# Lab Questions
Question 1: /etc/john/john.conf

Question 2: 218,340,105,584,896

Question 3: Security Logs

Question 4: (Get screenshot from phone)

Question 5: Windows has a larger variety of permissions for access control. Linux only uses specifying the read, write, execute rights. While Windows has different types of actions, such as allowing access, denying access, or audit access for a certain user. Furthermore, Windows has a larger list of specific permissions, such as for "Creating files/write data" and "Create folders/append data" and "Delete".

Question 6:
- The secret key is predictable, there is a pattern that can be followed to determine the key. Which makes it really easy to crack. If you know the start of the sequence, you can easily predict any secret key.
- The key runs out, when it reached the limit, it will overflow, making all the keys to 0000000000000000 again. This would cause the keys to no longer be unique. As there are now at least two ids that can have the same key.

Question 7: To verify that the user is actually who they say they are. When you do registration, you give out personal details like email. But you can claim to be a different person and make an account using that person's personal details. The point of token verification is to ensure that the user that is registering is the actual user that owns all the related information. (ensure correctness of identity)

## Bonus Questions
Question 2: Because the policy already states that there will be no lockout from the system. It can be seen there that Account lockout duration is not applicable. This means that the lockout is disabled. So no matter how many times you enter the wrong password, the system won't disable and lock you out. The fact that the threshold to lockout is set to 0 and the lockout counter is also not set further supports this idea.

Question 3: 

Question 4:
