# Week 9


# Lab Questions
Q1: That the integer variable num contain any value that is non-zero.

Q2: Any string longer than 16 characters. In my case: 'aassddffaassddffa' which is a 17 character string.

Q3: The memory space that is shown here stores the value for the integer variable 'num' right after the 16 character array. When we entered a 17 character word, the array overflows and writes the 17th character on the memory space that is owned by the integer variable num. Thus changing the value stored in num, making it non zero. Since it is non zero, it now passes the authentication check.

Q4: AAAABBBBCCCCDDDDCBA

Q5: Payload is AAAABBBBCCCCDDDD and then the characters for hex 03, 02, 01 which is control+c, control+b, control+a. I entered it by making a plaintext file on the side containing the payload, then piping it into the program by doing: ~/lab9vuln3.out < vuln3.txt

Q6: The characters '0x000A' is the newline character which due to the implementation of gets makes it so that gets ignores any characters that follow these characters. So it doesn't work as no matter what characters you put in, it will get ignored due to the way gets work.

Q7: The HHHH part of the input string makes it crash. The return address is located at the BFFFF32C to BFFFF32F

Q8: AAAABBBBCCCCDDDDEEEE followed by this hex \x00\xC0\x04\x08\x00\xC0\x04\x08\xDF\x91\x04\x08

Q9: SUID has been given to all the files that were in the lab9.tar file. That is all the files that was created then (all the .c, .out and .txt for the bonus) have all been given SUIDs. These files will be executed with root privileges.

Q10: xbuff, 512 bytes.

Q11: The largest offset value to make exploit work is 984. The smallest offset value is 732.

<!-- Q11: The maximum and minimum values of an integer. As the offset variable itself is an integer, the largest value it can have is MAX_INT(+2147483647) and the smallest is MIN_INT (-2147483648). After these values the offset values just stay the same as is defined by those values. -->
