# 3NF

Problems with bad design:

- Redundant storage: multiple instances of the same thing being stored
- Update anomaly: difficulty updating due to some functional dependencies
- Potential deletion anomaly: also due to functional dependencies
- Insertion anomaly: bad insertion, null key or something.

What is the reason behind these problems? We can see that there are **too many** facts stored in the table.

> Fact is represented by a functional dependency (FD)

How do we improve? Separate the tables to smaller tables or decomposition.

## Normalization

Is the process of decomposing a relation schema R into schema fragments. Goals:

- Lossless decomposition: no data should be lost in the process.
- Dependency preservation
- Good Form

### Lossless join decomposition

Lossless if we can recover the initial table if we join the fragment schemas.

#### Dependency Preserving Decomposition

If there is a FD that is lost in the decomposition (cannot be inferred from the other FDs) then the decomposition is **non-dependency preserving.**

This would be a problem because when you do an insertion, then one of the constraints are missing. Therefore, there might be data that doesn't fulfill the constraints yet are able to enter the table after decomposition.

## Good Forms

### 1NF : 1st Normal Form

Domains of all attributes contain only atomic values, as in no multi-valued or attributes consisting of structures. Example: relational tables

### 2NF:

Conditions:

- A is an element of X(the FD is trivial)
- X is not a proper subset of a candidate key for R
- A is a prime attribute

### 3NF:

Conditions:

- A is an element of X(the FD is trivial)
- X is a **superkey** R
- A is a prime attribute

>Proper subset means a proper subset of a set A is a subset of A that is **not equal** to A.
